Your nurse is here.
Your wrist, please.
Are you always so impertinent?
I'm simply doing my job.
I didn't catch your name.
Adams.
Sister Adams.
This isn't a situation
I expected to find myself in.
He doesn't need it.
I'm not a bloody child.
James.
James! No!
Did you tell her why you did this?
No-one else is to know about this.
No-one.
On the boat.
Forget the boat.
I thought you'd wished
you'd never married me.
I missed you.
I missed you too.
I was glad
to receive your letter.
The hospital will be lucky
to have you.
If they want me, that is.
I don't want him
employing the Adams woman.
She said she'd be discreet.
Well, she contacted George
because she has no other options.
She will scuttle off
as soon as possible,
and you'll just have to train
someone all over again.
The job's yours if you want it.
I thought I made my wishes clear.
No, you misrepresented her.
The fact that I want it
should suffice.
Not this time.
I would like to pay
your return passage to England.
Did you speak to Dr Duncan?
Did you encourage him against me?
That is a very generous offer.
You would be a fool not to accept.
And you'd be a fool
to think I would.
Subtitles by MemoryOnSmells
http://UKsubtitles.ru.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
The most popular song
in the country.
You have to wonder.
I think HE likes it.
Now, Doris Collins is the closest
thing Inverness has to a town crier.
Last try.
If you stay in the cottage,
you get to look after him.
He can look after himself.
Can't you, boy?
Be a weight off my mind.
But not your mother's.
I stopped taking orders
from my mother years ago.
Why exacerbate the problem,
Mr Bligh?
I tried. Please.
One thing I do insist on, though.
Call me George.
Don't be a stranger.
Bye, dog.
Thanks again.
George.
It must be Miss Adams!
Of course, it is Sarah.
Dropped off by Mr Bligh himself.
Goodness me.
I'm Doris Collins.
Call me Doris. I don't stand
on ceremony with my young girls.
Come in. Welcome. Welcome.
We met the Blighs in London, did we?
No.
On the ship home.
Oh, you don't say!
As you can see, simple but clean.
That's my motto.
They had cause for a nurse,
did they?
Sorry?
The Blighs on the boat.
Otherwise it seems a bit odd,
doesn't it?
No offence, dear,
but nurses don't travel top deck.
I worked my passage.
Is that the room?
You look like the sun up there.
Oh, that's corny.
My own sun.
Mi sole mio.
Get away!
I missed you so much.
The hundredth time you've said.
At least a thousand times
I've thought it!
Well, go away more often.
It makes you romantic.
But...
I don't deserve you.
Why?
I can't tell my family about you.
I'm a coward.
Don't say that.
If Gran doesn't think Sarah fits in,
what hope do we have?
You like this Sarah?
Very much.
She's... different from anyone
I've ever met.
She can stand up to Grandmother.
Some day I will too.
I'll stand before your family
and say how I feel about you.
How DO you feel about me?
You know.
No, I kn...
Ah! Ow!
Come in.
Grub's up.
I thought we could go in together.
I'd like that. Thank you.
I'm Alma.
Don't let the grass grow under you,
Sarah.
This is Maude.
And Alma I see you've met.
I'm the theatre nurse.
In charge of wards, me.
Dig in.
Doris is a bottler in the kitchen.
And very nice of you to say so,
Alma, dear.
If a little crudely.
So you're the new community nurse?
Yes.
She's just arrived from London.
Good friend of Mr Bligh's.
It was his idea to take the job,
was it?
He mentioned it.
I thought as much.
What a fine man.
Great catch for somebody.
Not that you're thinking that way,
of course.
I hear you're joining us on stage.
I was going to let you settle
before I mentioned it.
A charity matinee.
I've already told the committee
ladies you would.
Would what?
We're doing a number
from 'The Mikado'.
You sing? I'm sure you do.
You look as if you must.
You'll pick it up.
Anyway, it's for the hospital fund,
so I won't take no for an answer.
Well, if it's for a good cause.
As long as it's not on Sunday.
My aunt is visiting.
Theatricals on the Lord's day
is hardly seemly.
It's Saturday.
I'd love to meet your aunt.
She could dine with us.
Oh, that's kind but unnecessary.
No, it's no trouble.
We're all one happy family here.
We'd love to meet her.
No, I insist.
I insist.
We'll have tea out.
Mmm.
Delicious.
So where did you end up
taking Sarah?
Miss Adams wanted me to take her
to Doris Collins' house today.
Doris Co...
Why anyone would choose to live with
Doris Collins is beyond me.
It's her decision.
She's a grown woman.
We should have her for dinner
now and then.
Give her some relief.
Wouldn't you agree, Father?
If she's doing her job properly,
I doubt she'll have time.
Mother, she's a nurse,
not the prime minister.
I don't understand your problem.
I simply don't share your compulsion
to embrace her as a friend.
We barely know her.
And traditionally that's why
you invite someone to dinner.
To get to know them.
We found her a job, a place to stay.
I think that's enough.
She found herself the job
and she's moved out.
Why do I get the feeling
there's more to this?
I agree.
Must be hard for her.
You should have her up.
You feeling better, Olivia?
A little, actually. Thank you.
Wonderful.
Cards, I think.
Who's joining me?
James?
I'm glad we sorted that out.
About Sarah Adams...
Yes.
I do understand the situation.
You don't want her
raising suspicion.
Exactly.
The only person doing that
right now is you.
It's your hostility
that's causing comment.
Like it or not, she's here.
We have to live with it.
By making her part of the furniture?
Not by acting like she's
Frankenstein's monster.
All that does is encourages
speculation you're so afraid of.
And denying people what they want
hasn't really worked so far, has it?
Hello, my darling. Come in.
Canasta or bridge?
I'm not interrupting?
Oh, nothing of importance.
James was just being a scold.
And here's our fourth.
Bridge, I think.
Perhaps you were right, Anna.
About?
Miss Adams probably would
enjoy some company,
if she can find the time.
I've even thought of a nice way
to welcome her to the town.
James?
Hmm?
Does it seem odd, your grandmother's
attitude tonight about Sarah Adams?
Nah. She's never short of opinions.
It was more her about-face.
Do you know anything about it?
Her reasons, I mean.
Why would I?
I just...
wondered.
It's none of my business.
Obviously Father and Anna
made their case.
She's not unreasonable.
I thought you looked lovely tonight,
by the way.
I did?
Really beautiful.
Can I help you, Mrs Collins?
Oh, there you are!
I knocked first.
This just came for you.
I thought I'd leave it on the bed
for privacy.
Thank you.
It was hand-delivered by Norman,
the Blighs' man.
I'm afraid I won't be able
to join you for the song after all.
I've been invited to
the concert as their guest.
What? An afternoon with Mr Bligh?
Aren't you the lucky one?
Not quite.
Mrs Bligh.
Well.
That is an honour.
Thanks to
the Evelyn Hutchins Dance Academy!
Could be a special on
sprained ankles after that, girls.
And now a recitation.
Let's hear it for Roy Briggs,
our master of the bush ballad.
'How We Beat the Favourite',
in 25 verses.
Verse one.
And that's
a sulphur-crested cockatoo.
♪ Three little maids from school
♪ Three little maids who, all unwary
♪ Come from a ladies' seminary
♪ Freed from its genius tutelary
♪ Three little maids
from school... ♪
So glad you could come.
Me too.
It's great to see you again.
I meant to come up to the cottage
before you left.
Would you like to go riding
some time?
I could teach you.
We've got lots of quiet horses!
That's OK. I can ride.
Really?
Yeah.
Come up, uh, tomorrow, then.
I can lend you any gear
you might need.
It'll be just like the night
on the ship, only... jodhpurs.
I would love that.
Who said we left
the arts behind in Europe?
Charming.
Now say it as if you mean it.
I should introduce you around.
Are you up to it?
Of course.
Shall I get us drinks?
Thank you.
Yes.
I appreciate the invitation.
Oh, you're most welcome.
Can I be direct?
When have you been otherwise?
I didn't stay to spite you.
I'd like us to start again.
Lovely to meet you too.
You're threatened by what
I know about James.
James is doing perfectly well.
I don't know that a suicidal
tendency is so easily fixed.
In this case it is.
And if I should happen to be wrong,
my eye is on him always.
Well, then you have nothing to fear.
I'd only share what I know
for his wellbeing.
Good. Then there will be no need
for you to break the confidence.
Whose idea was this invitation?
Mine.
As you say, a new beginning.
If you'll excuse me.
Thank you.
Doris said it was nearly
four little mates from school.
Yes, with my voice, the audience
are lucky it stayed at three.
The Blighs are looking after you,
I see.
I thought I showed you
I don't need looking after.
Excuse me.
Sister...
Country town has
its class structures
just as much as where
you've come from.
The Blighs are the closest thing
we have to royalty.
First impressions count.
You'll have
your work cut out for you
if people think you're above them.
I see.
And you look very nice, by the way.
Pardon?
As it sounds.
Everything alright?
He's a particular kind of man,
isn't he?
He's a fine doctor, though.
I don't doubt it.
I'll be back in a moment.
I might have a small favour to ask.
I liked your poem, Roy.
It's not called a poem, see.
It's a bush ballad.
Sorry.
I was wondering...
Just up here.
Well, I do owe you one.
Uh, do you mind, miss?
Oh! Course not.
Thank you.
What about the old girl?
After your bush ballad, Roy,
I'm sure she'll be honoured.
I'll explain.
That's not gonna help her cause
with Grandmother.
Are you alright?
Just a little warm.
♪ Che bella cosa
e na jurnata e sole
♪ Naria serena
doppo na tempesta! ♪
I'm sorry!
♪ Ma natu sole
♪ Chiu bello, oi ne
♪ O sole mio
♪ Sta nfronte a te!
♪ O sole
♪ O sole mio
♪ Sta nfronte a te
♪ Sta nfronte a te! ♪
I'm so sorry.
I shouldn't have come.
I just...
I thought I was over all of this.
Your results are in.
Didn't open.
I'm sure they'll tell the tale.
Do you really think so?
Here you go.
What have you eaten today?
I can't keep anything down, really.
Here we are.
Now drink this.
The sugar will help
until you can eat.
You'll see to that?
Yes.
It's time for your speech.
It can wait.
Don't stay on my behalf, honestly.
I'm feeling much better.
You're sure?
Come and see me tomorrow.
I'll be in my office all afternoon.
Any time.
I'm starting to feel quite silly.
Gino Poletti
with Armo on the squeezebox.
You know what
they say about those Italians.
They've got a way with a song.
Just wish we knew what
they were singing about.
Right, well, I'll keep it short.
Thank you for coming.
Uh, we've raised a fair whack
for the hospital, so thank you.
All for another night on the town
for you, eh, Jack?
If there's any left over, Roy.
While I'm here,
I might as well introduce
our newest member of staff.
Stand up, Sarah.
Come on. Don't be shy.
She's the one who fixed my leg up.
Sister Adams will be starting soon
as our new community nurse.
So I hope you all make her feel
right at home. Hmm?
Oh!
That's our cultural duty
done for a while.
Using the term very loosely.
Duty?
Culture.
We'll take dinner in our room
if you don't mind.
Oh, not at all.
Are you sure you're feeling alright?
I'm fine. Thank you.
You rest.
If there's anything you need...
Have I got time for a bath
before dinner?
I am happy to delay dinner
if you are, George?
After being force-fed by the CWA.
I'll let Cook know.
Goody. Time for a long soak.
You're rather cheerful for someone
drawn into Miss Adams' game
of musical chairs.
You do understand
what she was doing?
Yeah, your father explained.
But it simply highlights exactly
what I've been saying.
Including her in our world
is not doing her any favours.
This is 1953, Grandmother.
Some standards are timeless.
I shudder to think of
the long-term effects
of unfettered social mobility.
I don't see why that's funny.
That's what makes it funny.
You're becoming cheeky, madam.
I know.
What did you think of
Gino Poletti's song?
Oh, well...
Yeah, he has a lovely voice.
Rather wasted on a simple farmer.
I'm worried about you.
I'm fine.
Really.
Are you happy?
Of course I am.
Because I want you to be.
I do.
You know I love you.
Show me.
I want you.
I'm alright.
Please.
You ride really well for a nurse.
How are nurses meant to ride?
Where did you learn?
In Spain.
Race you to that tree.
It's wonderful here.
So you lived in Spain for a time?
I was a nurse during
the Spanish civil war.
Was that terrible?
Yes.
It's where I met my husband,
so it's not all bad memories.
He passed away.
"O sole mio."
Should I ask?
Sorry?
You seem very taken with
the singer yesterday.
Gino?
Yes.
Do you understand Italian?
Tell me.
"O sole. O sole mio."
The sun. My own sun.
"Sta 'nfronte a te.
Sta 'nfronte a te."
It's upon your face.
It's...
Anna.
I'm fine.
He's just a friend.
Alright.
Is it that obvious?
For anyone who understood the words.
Oh, thank God none of them
know Italian.
They'd stop it.
To them, he's just a farmer,
and I'd be just a fool.
Your father might surprise you.
Gran wouldn't.
You did very well with
Sarah Adams yesterday.
I fulfilled my obligations.
For now.
We should have her up for dinner
once she's settled.
Jack Duncan made a good point
about community acceptance.
All the more reason
to entertain her privately.
Perhaps I'll ask Roy Briggs
to join us.
Your sense of humour
is rather perverse.
I would like to have her to dine.
I can keep a secret, you know.
I wish
it didn't have to be one.
Gino promised he'd say how he felt
about me in front of everyone,
and he did.
Even if he sang it
and they didn't understand.
I'm going to end up like James.
He only married Olivia
because he had to.
Because Grandmother made him.
You sure of that?
I have no proof,
but I think he had a girlfriend
in England they didn't approve of.
Olivia was just
his best friend's sister.
He never even mentioned her
in four years,
and suddenly they're married.
He's miserable and
we have an aristocrat in the family.
Mercury!
Anna!
Whoa! Whoa!
Mercury.
Are you alright?
Yes. Yes, I think so.
Oh.
No. No. No, don't be hurt.
Oh, we have to get him to a vet!
His leg is broken.
We have to get the truck
and we have to move him!
The vet can fix him!
We can't do nothing!
Stay here.
It's OK.
No! What are you doing?
He's in agony.
No.
It's not fair to let him suffer.
Walk away.
Oh, hello, Mildred.
Could you put me through
to Doris Collins, please?
Hello?
Mrs Collins.
Mrs Bligh?
I hope I haven't caught
you at an awkward moment.
Oh, no. Goodness me, no.
Let me congratulate you
on your yum yum.
Oh, thank you!
Now, I was hoping perhaps
I could come in
for a little chat this afternoon.
With me?
If it's not inconvenient.
Oh, dear.
I'm terribly... Look...
It's just that I promised the ladies
I'd go back down to the hall
and help the clean-up.
Well, of course,
I'd like to thank them too.
Perhaps I could come to the hall?
If it's not inconvenient.
No. No, not at all.
I'll let the ladies know.
Very good. As long as we can
have our moment alone.
Absolutely. Goodbye for n...
Off to town?
Yes. Do you need anything?
Sir. There's been an accident.
What happened?
Her horse startled
and ran through a fence.
Sarah had to put him down!
At whose suggestion?
It was the only thing to do.
I didn't realise you were also
a veterinarian.
See to Anna, Mother. I'll be in.
The leg was broken through.
I'll take you to him.
No, you don't need
to see that again.
Glen, will you stay with the horse
and find James?
You weren't hurt?
Anna was thrown.
She seems fine, but perhaps
Dr Duncan should double-check.
Won't you come inside?
No, I'll get back.
I'll get the car.
I'd like the walk.
Thank you, anyway.
She asked me to walk away,
and so I did, and...
and then she shot him.
But I didn't see it
and she didn't do anything wrong.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
You don't need to defend her.
Do you have any idea what
Mercury was worth?
Nothing lame.
Are you alright?
Sarah said you were thrown.
No, I'm fine.
It's just a shock.
I still think you should go
and lie down.
I'll be up to check on you soon.
Come on.
Calm as you like.
The woman fetches a gun,
tells Anna to walk away
and pulls the trigger.
Which is exactly what
I would have done.
You're a landowner, George.
What's your point?
She is a middle-aged nurse
who's been living in London,
who somehow rides like a stockman
and handles shotguns
without a moment's hesitation.
And so what?
We don't know anything about her.
We do.
We know that she just
looked after Anna,
and all you can do is vilify her.
She deserves better.
Who is she, George?
How many times do I have to say it?
We have no idea who she is.
I'll look after the burial.
There you are!
What time does your aunt get in?
Oh, my!
You look as though you've had
a run through an abattoir.
I won't be needing afternoon tea.
We discussed this.
Has there been an accident?
Don't tell me it happened
on your ride with young Miss Bligh!
Mrs Collins!
If I want to tell you more, I will.
Sorry.
That was uncalled for.
Oh, no. I have to run.
I've put myself at risk
of being very late
for an important rendezvous
by doing this.
If you change your mind,
it'll be there on the table,
set for just the two of you,
of course.
Gino!
Where have you been?
It's Mercury.
What's happened?
He broke a leg.
We had to put him down.
And I can't stop crying.
Shh. Hey.
Mama says,
"If you can't cry, you can't feel."
I...I...
I love you so much.
You don't have to say it.
No. No, I should have said it
well before now.
You said it now.
I love you.
So much.
It really was a wonderful day.
You all put in so much hard work.
Well, very nice to be
appreciated by someone.
I don't mean to pry
but is Anna alright?
Miss Adams mentioned something
about an accident.
I assumed it must have happened
after we spoke.
Well, thankfully no-one was hurt.
But the good sister did feel
the need to shoot one of our horses.
She never did.
We know so little about the woman.
She does seem to... keep things
to herself, doesn't she?
I have wondered about that.
Mmm.
Well, in my experience,
one doesn't guard a door
unless there's something
in the room.
You think she's hiding something?
One can't be too careful.
Well, I'll be sure
to keep my eyes peeled, if it helps.
That is very kind.
I'm positive there's nothing
to worry about.
Oh, no. Me too.
Kill me!
It's pretty bold of you,
just off the boat in a new country
and you slip away
for a pregnancy test.
They were all so focused
on Elizabeth seeing her specialist.
It is easy.
Hardly the actions of
a wilting violet.
Is that how they've
characterised me?
It's how Elizabeth seems to see you.
Perhaps I've earned the title.
It's not me. Not really.
Well?
I'm sure you're going to love
being a mother.
Are they happy tears?
It's been so hard
not to say something.
I didn't want to get their hopes up.
I didn't want to get mine up.
Everything's going to be fine now.
It wasn't?
I'm trying to be a good wife,
but...
I'm just failing everything.
Where'd you get that idea?
I know a disappointed man
when I see one.
I wasn't exactly anyone's
first choice back home.
Then... James...
suddenly seemed to see me
in a different light.
After years of never noticing me.
I was so happy.
And he's been so sad.
But this.
This will make a difference.
Aunty Peg.
Hello, love.
I knew you'd find your feet.
And they're treating you
well enough?
Has Mother asked after me?
No, but now that you're here,
we've got time to mend bridges.
She'll come round.
I wish I shared your confidence.
Don't be like that.
Because time...
time heals every wound.
Look, I've brought you something.
Oh.
Every home needs one.
Thank you.
I'll be sure to put it out
when I find one.
You don't think that could be
here in Inverness?
No, I'm still not sure.
The last time I had
what I call a home
was over 10 years ago in Paris.
You were happy there.
Oh, yes.
We were in love.
And then the Germans came.
Well.
I'm sure you'll find
a spot for that mat.
One day.
You mark my words.
Have you seen James?
Oh, what did Jack say?
It's nothing to worry about.
I can't find him anywhere.
I believe he's at the sheds.
He's not.
Well, I'm sure that's where
he said he'd be.
He did, but they haven't seen him
all morning.
Sorry to interrupt.
I'll keep looking.
No, no, no. You should be resting.
Come on. Sit.
There's fresh tea.
I'll bring him to you.
James!
Oh, James.
James. Oh, God.
Something wrong?
Didn't you hear me?
I've been calling.
You shouldn't be exerting yourself.
I'm not an invalid.
You said you'd be at the sheds.
I couldn't find you.
You didn't think...?
I'm fine.
I'm beyond doing anything foolish.
I promise.
We just finished burying Mercury.
Why didn't you answer when I called?
I didn't hear you.
Don't.
Please.
Your wife is back from the hospital
looking for you.
Get dressed.
I wish you could stay longer.
Next time.
This is a lovely little town.
Give it a go.
We'll see.
What did happen?
During the war?
Not a word for five years.
I lost everything.
They nearly killed me.
It's hard enough to go there
in my mind,
let alone in the telling.
When you can, sweetheart.
There you are.
I was busy with something.
What's happened?
I wanted to tell you alone
but everyone simply arrived.
We're going to have a baby, James.
Oh!
That is wonderful news!
I'm going to be Aunt Anna!
Congratulations.
I'm... gonna be a father?
Champagne with dinner, I think.
Oh, a baby!
Aren't you happy?
James.
Yes.
A hundred times, yes.
Oh, good afternoon, sister.
I trust the visit with your aunt
went well.
Thank you.
My aunt very much
appreciated your effort.
I'm glad.
I'm sure a long, hot soak
is very much in order
after such an eventful day.
It is.
Thought you might
feel like some tea.
Aren't you lovely?
We're gonna have a baby, Livvy.
What do you think it is?
A boy.
I'm sure of it.
I've even started picking names.
Is that silly?
Not at all.
I like William.
I...I think that's perfect.
Your brother will be chuffed.
It's also my father's name,
of course.
I was thinking more of him.
Of course.
How silly of me.
But you're right.
William is your dearest friend.
You must miss him as much as I do.
Sometimes.
William it is.
Can we talk?
The suspicion you had earlier...
I...
I accept that you're past
harming yourself.
I meant the other one.
I want you to know
that I'm going to be a good father
and a good husband.
I know I've disappointed you
and I'll make up for it.
I promise.
I hope so.
Yes. Of course.
She's right here.
Doris Collins for you.
Thank you, James.
I'll take this in private.
Mrs Collins.
I'm sorry to disturb you.
I know you're frightfully busy,
but I've just discovered something
very disturbing about Miss Adams.
Or whoever she is.
Oh.
Our rooms have locks.
I want the key to mine.
I...I can't do that.
It's a house rule.
It may be your house
but it's my room.
I want that key or I leave.
Stay out of my belongings.
Did you do
a background check on her?
Of course.
Her references were in order.
What's the point of this?
The point is,
you checked the references of
a woman called Sarah Adams.
That is not her real name.
So who did we employ, Doctor?
I'll get to the bottom of it,
Elizabeth.
I certainly hope so.
Because it is high time
we knew exactly
who Miss Bridget Adams really is.
Subtitles by MemoryOnSmells
http://UKsubtitles.ru.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org